I wasn't living in Wales, I was living in Cambridge.
And that's got a big bearing on this.
Because I think Welsh people who live outside of Wales, or on the fringes of Wales,
have a very different attitude to Wales than people who live inside Wales.
And the most fanatic nationalists I've met in my life are all those expatriates.
And they're usually the ones who've got these wonderful accents like this and say,
Oh, I love coming to Cardiff for the game.
I'll have to be on the six o'clock train to get back to Paddington.
Off they go.
But they love Wales.
I mean, I was living about as far from Wales as you can get in Cambridge.
But I was coming home a lot.
Because my PhD research was, well, at least some of it was done here.
A lot of it was in the public records office in Cambridge itself, in the university library and stuff.
So I was in contact with a lot of people down here.
And at the time, the people I knew were mainly opposed to devolution.
Like most of the Labour Party in Wales, for example, led by Neil Kinnock.
And in fact, Paul Murphy has got, to this day, the lists of everybody who gave money for the No campaign.
And by 1997, 1998, they were almost entirely the people who were giving money to the Yes campaign.
I'm not sure what that tells you, but I just thought you ought to know that as an historian.
Led by people like Ron Davis, who were vociferously anti-devolution in 1970.
And I'm vociferously pro-devolution.
And I'm a vociferously pro-devolution in 1997.
Do you have your own theory of why there was such a shift, especially with the Labour Party?
I think it may have had something to do with Thatcherism, really.
But I'm not convinced of that, by the way.
And if it did, then it was a really foolish thing.
Because the idea that you can somehow cushion yourself from the blows of the British state if you don't have independence, I think is a complete fallacy.
And sooner or later, the Assembly in Cardiff has been bankrolled massively.
But pretty soon that money is going to dry up.
And then, the reality checkpoint occurs.
That's why I feel very uneasy about this referendum.
Because I think it's a bit of a cheat, really.
It ought to be about, do you want tax raising powers?
Do you want independence?
I mean, I'm not sure that kind of fanning around with relatively trivial bits of legislation means anything to anybody.
I don't really understand it, to be honest with you.
I think it's quite a complicated kind of mechanical device that's used to devolve some legislative powers.
I just can't get a head of steamer about it, one way or another.
But anyway, why did they change? I don't know.
I mean, it was always a kind of old Labour Party, certainly since the debates with George and so on.
And the whole discussion about what you do about trying to realise some aspirations that aren't shared in other parts of the United Kingdom.
I mean, that becomes something quite special.
I don't remember those debates, really, in the 1970s.
I think it was a very different kind of campaign.
And also, by the way, it was one that I was very much at arm's length from, just because of personal circumstances.
I think if I'd have been living here, I'd be much more involved in it than I was.
But it wasn't very important to me, really.
But I do remember it, and I do remember making some speeches in favour of devolution.
I think I still harboured suspicions about the British state and about the strange reaction to the bombers during the investiture campaign.
And the worries that there was going to be another Northern Ireland and all of this stuff.
And I've never really resolved that in my own mind.
I'm not sure if the British state, such as it is, are knowing it a bit better than I did then.
I'm not sure that there is such a thing as the British state.
But that established government was particularly worried about what was going on in Wales during the investiture.
And worried about it enough to think, well, we'd better give them something during the debate on devolution in the 70s.
I guess my argument is a pretty crude one, really, which is you can never out-nationalists.
And it doesn't matter what interim measure you give them, they'll always want independence.
That's as simple as that. And I think it's a very honest position, actually.
I've never really been able to get beneath the logic of what the Scottish nationalists had done.
And my old buddy David Ellis Thomas has tried time and again to explain to me what his position is on this.
But I'm not sure if I understand it.
I love him dearly, though I do.